Goku loves eating lots of food, especially rice and meat.
He trained under Master Roshi, King Kai, and Whis.
His ultimate form is Ultra Instinct.
Goku is cheerful, optimistic, and loves sparring with strong fighters.
He cares deeply for his friends and family.

Son Goku (孫そん悟ご空くう Son Gokū), born Kakarot (カカロット Kakarotto), is a Saiyan raised on Earth and the main protagonist of the Dragon Ball series.
He is the second-born son and youngest child of Bardock and Gine, the husband of Chi-Chi, and the father of Gohan and Goten. 
Originally sent to Earth by his parents as an infant, Kakarot was adopted by Grandpa Gohan and renamed Son Goku. A head injury at an early age altered Goku's memory, ridding him of his initial destructive nature and allowing him to grow up to become one of Earth's greatest defenders.
Goku constantly strives and trains to be the greatest warrior that he can possibly be, which has kept the Earth and the universe safe from destruction multiple times.

Earth, known as the Dragon World (ドラゴンワールド) and designated as "Planet 4032-877" by the celestial hierarchy, is the main setting of the Dragon Ball series, as well as related media such as Dr. Slump, Neko Majin, and Jaco the Galactic Patrolman. It is mainly inhabited by Earthlings (地球人, Chikyūjin), a term used inclusively to refer to all of the intelligent races native to the planet, including humans, anthropomorphic beings, and monsters. Starting from the Dragon Ball Z series, various extraterrestrial species such as the Saiyans (サイヤ人, Saiya-jin) and Namekians (ナメック星人, Namekku-seijin) have played a more prominent role in franchise media.The narrative of Dragon Ball predominantly follows the adventures of the Saiyan Son Goku; upon meeting Bulma at the beginning of the series, the two embark on an adventure to gather the seven Dragon Balls, a set of orbs that summon the wish-granting dragon Shenlong.[ch. 1] Goku later receives martial arts training from Kame-Sen'nin, meets his lifelong friend Kuririn, and enters the Tenkaichi Budōkai (天下一武道会; lit. "Strongest Under the Heavens Martial Arts Tournament") to fight the world's strongest warriors. When Piccolo Daimao, and later his offspring Piccolo, tries to conquer the planet, Goku receives training from Earth's deities to defeat them. Goku later sacrifices his life to save the planet from his estranged brother Raditz,[ch. 205] but is revived after training in the afterlife under the tutelage of the North Kaio to combat the other incoming Saiyans, Nappa and Vegeta. He later becomes a Super Saiyan and defeats the powerful alien tyrant Frieza; this sets the tone of the rest of the series, with each enemy the characters face becoming stronger than the last, requiring them to attain further training.
Dragon Ball Super establishes that the franchise is set in a multiverse[11] composed of twelve[d] numbered universes, with the majority of the Dragon Ball series taking place in Universe 7 (第7宇宙, Dai-Nana Uchū; lit. "Number Seven Universe"). Each universe is ruled by a number of benevolent and malevolent deities, respectively called Kaioshin and Gods of Destruction who are appointed by a higher being called Zeno, the watcher of the multiverse.
Akira Toriyama was an avid fan of Hong Kong martial arts films, particularly Bruce Lee films such as Enter the Dragon (1973) and Jackie Chan films such as Drunken Master (1978), and wanted to create a manga inspired by the films of the genre.[12][13][14] This led to Toriyama creating the 1983 one-shot manga Dragon Boy, which he later redeveloped into Dragon Ball.[15] Toriyama loosely modeled the plot and characters of Dragon Ball on the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West,[16][15] with Goku being Sun Wukong ("Son Goku" in Japanese), Bulma as Tang Sanzang, Oolong as Zhu Bajie, and Yamcha being Sha Wujing.[17] Toriyama wanted to write a story with the basic theme of Journey to the West, but with "a little kung fu"[18] by combining the novel with elements from the kung fu films of Chan and Lee.[19] The title Dragon Ball was inspired by Enter the Dragon and later Bruceploitation knockoff kung fu films, which frequently had the word "Dragon" in their titles,[12] and the fighting scenes were influenced by Jackie Chan movies.[20][17] Since it was serialized in a shōnen manga magazine, he conceived the Dragon Balls to give it a game-like activity of gathering something, without thinking of what the characters would wish for.[18] His concept of the Dragon Balls was inspired by the epic Japanese novel Nansō Satomi Hakkenden (1814–1842) from the late Edo period, which involved the heroes collecting eight Buddhist prayer beads; Toriyama adapted this into collecting seven Dragon Balls.
Toriyama originally thought the manga would last about a year or end once the Dragon Balls were collected.[23] He stated that although the stories are purposefully easy to understand, he specifically aimed Dragon Ball at readers older than those of Dr. Slump.[24] He also wanted to break from the Western influences common in Dr. Slump, deliberately incorporating for Chinese influences and scenery and referencing Chinese buildings and photographs of China his wife had bought.[25] Toriyama wanted to set Dragon Ball in a fictional world largely based on Asia, taking inspiration from several Asian cultures including Japanese, Chinese, Indian, Central Asian, Arabic and Indonesian cultures.[26] The island where the Tenkaichi Budōkai is held is modeled after Bali (in Indonesia), which he, his wife and assistant visited in mid-1985, and for the area around Bobbidi's spaceship, he consulted photos of Africa.Toriyama was also inspired by the jinn (genies) from The Arabian Nights.
During the early chapters of the manga, Toriyama's editor, Kazuhiko Torishima, commented that Goku looked rather plain. To combat this, he added several characters such as Kame-Sen'nin and Kuririn, and created the Tenkaichi Budōkai martial arts tournament to focus the storyline on fighting. It was when the first Tenkaichi Budōkai began that Dragon Ball truly became popular, having recalled the races and tournaments in Dr. Slump.[17] Anticipating that readers would expect Goku to win the tournaments, Toriyama had him lose the first two while planning an eventual victory. This allowed for more character growth as the manga progressed. He said that Muscle Tower in the Red Ribbon Army storyline was inspired by the video game Spartan X (known as Kung-Fu Master in the West), in which enemies appear in quick succession as the player ascends a tower (the game was in turn inspired by Jackie Chan's Wheels on Meals and Bruce Lee's Game of Death). He then created Piccolo Daimao as a truly evil villain, and as a result named that arc the most interesting to draw.
Once Goku and company had become the strongest on Earth, they turned to extraterrestrial opponents including the Saiyans (サイヤ人, Saiya-jin); and Goku himself was retconned from an Earthling to a Saiyan who was sent to Earth as a baby.[28] Frieza, who forcibly took over planets to resell them, was created around the time of the Japanese economic bubble and was inspired by real estate speculators, whom Toriyama called the "worst kind of people".[17] Finding the escalating enemies difficult, he created the Ginyu Force to add more balance to the series. When Toriyama created the Super Saiyan (超スーパーサイヤ人, Sūpā Saiya-jin) transformation during the Frieza arc, he was initially concerned that Goku's facial expressions as a Super Saiyan made him look like a villain, but decided it was acceptable since the transformation was brought about by anger.[29] Goku's Super Saiyan form has blonde hair because it was easier to draw for Toriyama's assistant (who spent a lot of time blacking in Goku's hair), and has piercing eyes based on Bruce Lee's paralyzing glare.Dragon Ball Z character designer Tadayoshi Yamamuro also used Bruce Lee as a reference for Goku's Super Saiyan form, stating that, when he "first becomes a Super Saiyan, his slanting pose with that scowling look in his eyes is all Bruce Lee."[31] Toriyama later added time travel during the Cell arc, but said he had a hard time with it, only thinking of what to do that week and having to discuss it with his second editor Yu Kondo.After Cell's death, Toriyama intended for Gohan to replace Goku as the series' protagonist, but later felt the character was not suited for the role and changed his mind.
Going against the convention that the strongest characters should be the largest in terms of physical size, Toriyama designed many of Dragon Ball's most powerful characters with small statures, including the protagonist, Goku.[32] Toriyama later explained that he had Goku grow up as a means to make drawing fight scenes easier, even though his first editor Kazuhiko Torishima was initially against it because it was rare to have the main character of a manga series change drastically.[33] When including fights in the manga, Toriyama had the characters go to uninhabited locations to avoid difficulties in drawing residents and destroyed buildings.[25] Toriyama said that he did not plan the details of the story, resulting in strange occurrences and discrepancies later in the series, including changing the colors of the characters mid-story and few characters having screentone because he found it difficult to use.After the completion of Dragon Ball, Toriyama continued to add to its story, mostly background information on its universe, through guidebooks published by Shueisha.
During the second half of the series, Toriyama said that he had become more interested in coming up with the story than actually drawing it, and that the battles became more intense with him simplifying the lines.[20] In 2013, he stated that because Dragon Ball is an action manga, the most important aspect is the sense of speed, so he did not draw very elaborate, going so far as to suggest one could say that he was not interested in the art.[33] He also once said that his goal for the series was to tell an "unconventional and contradictory" story.[32] In 2013, commenting on Dragon Ball's global success, Toriyama said, "Frankly, I don't quite understand why it happened. While the manga was being serialized, the only thing I wanted as I kept drawing was to make Japanese boys happy.", "The role of my manga is to be a work of entertainment through and through. I dare say I don't care even if [my works] have left nothing behind, as long as they have entertained their readers.

Goku's adoptive full name is also based on the traditional Mandarin Chinese full name 孫悟空 (Sūn Wùkōng). The name 孫そん悟ご空くう (Son Gokū) is simply the Japanese on'yomi rendering of 孫悟空 (Sūn Wùkōng), as Chinese and Japanese share the same characters but with different pronunciations. 孫 (Sūn)/孫そん (Son) is a common Chinese/Japanese surname that normally means "grandchild", while 悟空 (Wùkōng)/悟ご空くう (Gokū) is a common Buddhist name that means "perceiving air/awakened to emptiness". Reading "孫悟空" ("Sūn Wùkōng") via the first and final characters only through the Japanese kun'yomi rendering system makes it read out as "Mago Gosora", used at some point as a gag in the original manga's run by the World Tournament Announcer.
Goku was revealed a month before the Dragon Ball manga started, in postcards sent to members of the Akira Toriyama Preservation Society.[28]
Goku's first appearance was on the last page of "Grand Finale", the last chapter of the Dr. Slump manga, advertising Dragon Ball's upcoming debut.
Goku's Saiyan birth name, Kakarot, is a pun on "carrot". Goku's family, like most Saiyans, are all named after root vegetables (burdock, leek, radish, and carrot) or even the word "vegetable" itself.
While Goku is an overall good person, Akira Toriyama designed him as one who fights mostly for personal joy of challenging strong opponents. To which, Toriyama notes that the anime tends to go overboard in making Goku look heroic, and that his original depiction of Goku in the manga has certain "poisonous" traits.[29][30]
Goku's Super Saiyan form was heavily influenced by the martial artist Bruce Lee. According to Toriyama, Goku's piercing eyes were based on Lee's paralyzing glare.[31] Dragon Ball Z anime character designer Tadayoshi Yamamuro also used Lee as a reference for Goku's Super Saiyan form, stating that, when he "first becomes a Super Saiyan, his slanting pose with that scowling look in his eyes is all Bruce Lee."[32]
Goku looks almost exactly like his father, possessing the same spiky black hairstyle, dark-colored eyes, and facial features. However, he has softer eyes, a kind demeanor, and a lighter-pale skin complexion from his mother. Goku's most distinguishing physical characteristic is his hair. He has three bangs hanging to the right of his forehead and two bangs hanging to the left. His hair also stands up in the front with four spikes and three bangs in the back (later in the anime, he has five spikes in the front and four in the back). Goku was born with the signature tail of the Universe 7 Saiyans, which was long and prehensile with brown fur. It was removed and regrown multiple times in his early childhood, but in his late teens, Goku's tail was permanently removed by Kami in order to restore the Moon without having to worry about his Great Ape transformation.
At age 12, Goku was rather short and appeared even younger than he was, being considered less than 10 years old (people were surprised when learning his actual age). His somewhat simple-minded personality also gave people the impression that he was as young as he looked. During the next few years, Goku did not go through any physical changes, other than his muscles becoming more pronounced. By age 15, he began showing noticeable increases in height. By age 18, he had a considerable growth spurt, growing taller than some of his friends and developing a well-built physique. He is also considered very handsome, as noted by various women including Bulma and Heles. His physical changes made him almost indistinguishable from before and was only recognized by his signature naïve personality and "trademark" hairstyle. By age 25, Goku had another growth spurt, and became about similar in height to his taller human allies and much more muscular.
Due to his love of training, he is most commonly seen wearing a Gi. Originally, Goku wore a blue gi secured with a white bow-tied obi over his waist, red wristbands, and dark blue kung fu shoes. He later wore a white tank top while training under Master Roshi. Following this, Goku wore the basic Turtle School Uniform, consisting of a red gi (later orange) secured by a black knot-tied obi over his waist, blue wristbands, and blue kung fu shoes. On the left chest and back there is a yellow patch with Roshi's kanji. After training with Kami and Mr. Popo, Goku wore a black short-sleeved undershirt (later dark blue) with this gi and replaced his shoes with dark blue boots with a yellow border and red laces. In Dragon Ball Z, the patches containing the Turtle School kanji became white. After training under King Kai, Goku wore King Kai's kanji on the back of his top. During the Frieza Saga, Goku wore his own kanji on both sides of his top. During the Cell and Buu Sagas, Goku wore a plainer version of this gi that lacked any kanji and featured a blue sash-style obi over his waist, as well as the same dark blue undershirt, same wristbands and the same boots from his previous gi, but with a red border and yellow/tan laces. He later retains this outfit throughout most of Dragon Ball Super, while also regaining his own kanji on both sides of his gi shirt.
During his early training under Whis, Goku wore an orange traditional and loose gi with Whis' kanji over the left breast, secured by a blue obi tied in a knot at the left of his waist. He also wore blue wristbands that cover nearly his entire forearms and blue boots with a black toe cap and heel that clasp together on the front of his shins. He returned to his original Gi with the "Go" symbol after the Universe 6 Saga.
In the Universe Creation Saga, Goku's attire is the same from the previous arc but this time, it has a lighter tone of orange, and his t-shirt, belt, wristbands, and the blue parts of his boots become black. Later on, in the New Space-Time War Saga, after being released from the Demon's Hyperbolic Time Chamber, Goku returns with Vegeta with the Dark Empire's logo imprinted on his gi.
By the 28th World Martial Arts Tournament, Goku wears a light blue tunic with a white knot-style obi, dark green pants, orange wristbands, orange leg wraps, and black kung fu shoes. In the cover of the "Goodbye, Dragon World" volume of the manga, this outfit's color is different. The gi is lime green, his wristbands are purple, his pants are cyan, and he wears the boots from his previous outfit, albeit purple.
Despite his fighting gi being his preferred look, Goku is not without other types of wardrobes, such as a suit and tie,[33] casual clothes like blue pants with a button-down red shirt, or an orange and black jacket with a white sleeveless undershirt, light green pants and brown shoes. When returning home to prepare for the androids, Goku wore an outfit similar to one from his youth, a white tank top with periwinkle Chinese pants with a white sash and purplish brown toe shoes and white socks. His farmer attire consists of light beige collared denim jacket with a white scarf around his neck and a charcoal gray short sleeved undershirt, light beige pants with a black belt around his waist and black boots. The sleeves on his jacket have been folded into white cuffs.
In Dragon Ball GT, Goku's skin tone got a noticeable tan. His general outfit is very similar to his outfit at the 28th World Martial Arts Tournament, being a blue tunic with a white knot-style obi, yellow pants, pink wristbands, white leg wraps, and black kung fu shoes. Due to the carelessness of Emperor Pilaf, Goku was wished back into a 12-year-old. While essentially looking the same as he did back then, Goku showed considerably more defined muscle. Later, with the aid of Old Kai, Goku regenerates his tail, which would poke out from his pants. 100 years later at the 64th World Martial Arts Tournament, despite growing back to his physical prime without transforming, he was not still seen with his tail. However, in one ending, he is seen with a tail in adult form. During which, he wears the outfit from the 28th World Martial Arts Tournament. He also wears his Power Pole again.
When re-grown up, GT Goku appears in the Adventure Mode of Extreme Butōden, he wears his classic outfit from Dragon Ball Super. In Dragon Ball Minus: The Departure of the Fated Child, an infant Goku was seen wearing a standard Battle Armor of the Frieza Force when being sent to Earth. It is the standard model of armor worn by Saiyans at the time, consisting of a black chest piece with white accents and beige panels on the stomach and lower back, plus beige shoulder and hip guards. In addition, he had bright blue shorts, black arm and leg bracers with white edges and white boots with a striped, beige toe cap and a gray sole.
"Despite all my heinous provocations on Namek, Goku couldn't will himself to destroy me. He's a noble man of great moral clarity. So pure, he makes me want to vomit!"
His lack of emotional maturity has also left him somewhat naïve, which often makes many incorrectly assume him to be somewhat stupid. His direct and carefree approach, combined with often taking things to face-value, can lead to Goku being rather blunt as he expresses himself. Despite this, Goku is remarkably effective at applying himself once properly motivated, able to quickly comprehend the situation and likewise learn the basics of anything presented to him, if not master it. When taking a firsthand experience, Goku is shown to be incredibly perceptive and intuitive, quickly able to analyze the situation and formulate an effective countermeasure. Very methodical and tactical in his approach, he immediately saw through the limits of higher grades of Super Saiyan even without having tested them in battle and chose to instead refine his normal Super Saiyan form, impressing even his rival Vegeta at the crafty and innovative idea.
He has a remarkable intuition to see the good in others in spite of their actions, though his compassion and willingness to forgive can have often been criticized as excessive even to a fault and has led to harm and death to those he cares about in extreme occasions. At the same time, for all his morally driven nature, Goku can show animosity towards those he believes have earned it, such as Mercenary Tao and Frieza for killing Bora and Krillin respectively, a trait he seemed to inherit from his father Bardock. Overall, Goku only kills his enemies when he feels it is necessary or if they are beyond redemption. While viewed by many as a very honorable man of heroic nature, he openly never actually considers himself a savior, but rather simply refuses to let innocent people or animals get hurt, as his adoptive grandfather taught him. He openly prefers to reform enemies on the grounds that it will be more exciting to clash with them in the future that way. Ultimately, this is one of his greatest drives in life, constantly pushing him beyond his limits. Whenever his friends are threatened or harmed, Goku abandons nearly all mercy for the foe, as the mortal-wound to Piccolo and the loss of his best friend Krillin against Frieza allowed Goku to unleash Super Saiyan on the tyrant. This is also seen when Jiren tried to kill all of Goku's friends, Goku fiercely attacked him with rage. However, his philosophy of turning enemies into allies has sometimes clouded Goku's discernment in recognizing that certain opponents of his are unable to change or have any change in his way of thinking, best exemplified by his final confrontation with Moro, where his attempts to try to make the warlock repent for his atrocities after dominating him not only allowed him to strengthen himself further and put the entire galaxy at risk after the latter merged with Earth, which made Goku visibly desperate for realizing that his complacency ended up putting everything to lose.
Another problem stemming from his lack of proper education, Goku had little understanding of adult responsibilities. As a result, he spent most of his marriage without a job, instead of being supported by his prize-winnings from the World Martial Arts Tournaments and the Ox-King's wealth. This limited education also was seen from his struggle in the written test for the Tournament of Destroyers. Overall, both his children have shown a better understanding of general matters as Chi-Chi ensured that Gohan and Goten had a well-educated background. While Chi-Chi later made Goku take up a job as a farmer, Goku is regularly shown with little interest in it, often looking for excuses to get out of work to train instead. This mostly stems from his Saiyan nature, instinctively desiring combative challenges.
Goku has little modesty and is not at all concerned about public nudity (though later came to have a better appreciation for it). His simple nature rarely exhibits lustful feelings and thus little interest in women (with the exception of his wife). As a result, seduction tactics have no effect on him. While he is not normally reckless, he occasionally makes decisions without properly thinking them through, such as when he went to discuss the Tournament of Power with the Omni-Kings despite Beerus warning him of the potential consequences of meeting with the amoral supreme rulers. While technically considerate in nature and never intentionally rude, Goku tends to not show proper respect to people of high authority; the most notable example being his casual interactions with the Omni-Kings and the Grand Minister (even though they do not mind), much to the shock and disgust of numerous Gods and Kais. Goku can be insensitive at times, as shown by his willingness to promise Old Kai naked photos of Bulma, without consideration for either Bulma or her husband Vegeta (though he rationalized it as for the sake of Earth's survival to enlist Old Kai's aid).
He enjoys meeting new people and learning about/from them. Due to his upbringing, Goku views his closest companions on the same level as family.[38] He is rarely seen romantic or intimate with Chi-Chi and mainly married her because he promised, although once learning marriage means living with someone forever, openly liked the idea with Chi-Chi. He has openly stated that he loves Chi-Chi and even cited her feistiness and passion as traits endearing to him. He will often leave his family for long periods, and though normally for noble reasons, such as maintaining his strength for their safety and the protection of the world, Goku does not realize its negative effect on his family and friends. Despite this, he consistently expresses his appreciation for his family, as after completing his training in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber to face Cell, he chose to spend the remaining time with his family rather than training more. Goku desires for his children to follow in his footsteps as a fighter, but he is generally accepting of their choices in lifestyle so long as they are happy and healthy. Overall, his love for his family has been a constant boost to his performance in battle. Also, Goku was very happy to learn he was going to be a grandfather, to which he later enjoyed taking care of his baby granddaughter Pan and grew very concerned when she disappeared. Against Goku Black, when learning that the rogue god murdered his family in spite of their initial encounter, despite it only happening in the original timeline, Goku's righteous rage let him pummel Black and Future Zamasu simultaneously.
Goku's love for his adoptive grandfather has constantly been the most emotional and influential aspect of his life, even long after the old man's death, and as shown by Goku's reaction to each time they met again in Gohan's afterlife. Even after learning, they were not blood-related or even the same race, Goku still considers the old man his family, as shown by his great sorrow and shame when realizing that he killed the kind man as a Great Ape, apologizing deeply to him and hoping for forgiveness when next they meet. Goku's bond towards his grandfather made him cherish the Power Pole and the 4-Star Dragon Ball that he left his grandson behind as the only material objects of real worth to him. As a child, he even came to believe that the Dragon Ball housed the old man's spirit as he would speak it often, possibly as a coping mechanism to deal with his loss of his only known family. Goku was happy to meet all who were close to his grandfather and even delighted when his firstborn son reacted positively to being named after the elder.
Contrary to popular belief, Goku loves his family, supporting their goals as well as sacrificing himself twice to save Gohan and fighting off Future Zamasu when he found out Chi-Chi and Goten had been killed by Goku Black.
While considering himself an Earthling more than Saiyan, in battle, he tends to think more like a typical Universe 7 Saiyan. Once a fight begins, he desires to see it through to the end to truly determine who is the winner. Even while battling Frieza on the self-destructing Planet Namek, he chose to finish his fight with Frieza even when offered the chance to escape through the Namekian Dragon Balls, believing that Frieza had to be defeated by his hand rather than random chance. He is also dissatisfied when foes do not use their full might. While valuing his friends' loyalty and willingness to accept help when the need comes, he prefers to face his challenges solo, determined to prove his might against the given foe. He openly showed dislike at originally acquiring Super Saiyan God through the aid of others rather than by his own merit. At the same time, he admits that the true growth of his being came from the support and connection he gained from others. His warrior mentality can be reckless at times. Against Cell, Goku chose to focus the majority of his efforts training Gohan in the goal of unlocking his son's dormant capacities to defeat Cell, forgetting that Gohan was even gentler than him. Likewise, for an unrestricted fight against Hit, Goku willingly risked his life by hiring Hit to kill him to fight him at his best. Goku is also willing to recruit help from his greatest of enemies like Frieza as he needed a strong tenth ally for the Tournament of Power though he himself acknowledged that it was a risky move and Vegeta noted that Goku wouldn't have done it under normal circumstances as the universes were at stake.
At the same time, however, this ambition for the new generations stems from his humble concern that his friends and family have become too dependent on his might. He rationalizes his willingness to put the children in the spotlight of battle due to the fact that he will not always be around to help. He believes that the new generation needs to become stronger in order to protect the Earth from future threats. However, he is not without a personal goal behind it. Realizing the potential might of people like Gohan and Uub, he is excited by the idea of facing such might once realized. At the same time, Goku tries to keep people away from the battlefield if he feels it will be too dangerous for them as he during the battle against the resurrected Frieza, Goku ordering Goten and Trunks to leave the battlefield to avoid the tyrant's brutality with Vegeta and Bulma agreeing.
Grandpa Gohan and the pre-head injury Kakarot/Goku in Dragon Ball Minus
In Dragon Ball Minus: The Departure of the Fated Child, the three-year-old Kakarot is sent to Earth by his parents due to Bardock's keen intuition, suspecting that Frieza is planning to destroy the Saiyans due to his recent orders to return to Planet Vegeta and his men asking about legends regarding the Super Saiyan and Super Saiyan God. Upon reaching Earth, Kakarot encounters the Elder Gohan who after fighting with the child off panel brings him home where the Elder Gohan is able to placate the boy with food. The young Kakarot can be seen standing upon the table in Grandpa Gohan's House eating food with Grandpa Gohan commenting on his lack of manners as he refuses to sit in a nearby chair as he eats, before deciding to name the boy Son Goku (presumably due to Kakarot's either inability to speak or refusing to speak. While Kakarot/Goku behaves in a primitive manner and has no table manners, he is not as wild as Master Roshi's comments upon his early life with Grandpa Gohan, though it should be noted that the scene in Dragon Ball Minus is very brief and it doesn't contradict the original Dragon Ball manga as there is no accompanying flashbacks of the young Goku's childhood like in the anime (and Master Roshi was simply relaying second hand information he heard from Grandpa Gohan, stating that young pre-head injury Goku was wild and untamed child which fits with his depiction in Dragon Ball Minus). During the Granolah the Survivor Saga, Goku finally learns about his father Bardock thanks to Monaito revealing how the low class Saiyan saved Granolah and Monaito during the Cerealian genocide and attempted to save Granolah's mother Muezli though she was unfortunately murdered by the Heeter Elec. Vegeta confirms Bardock is the name of Goku's (and by extension Raditz's) biological father and after hearing the story notes that from his perspective, Goku seemed to have inherited his soft heartedness from his parents, given it was Bardock's love for his wife and youngest son that caused him to rescue Granolah and his mother instead of exterminating them like he was supposed to as a Saiyan Army soldier. It is also revealed that Bardock fought and defeated the Heeter Gas in his Inner Nature Unleashed which he managed to defeat. Gas himself also lamented that Goku lacks his father's grit and determination which Gas apparently respected.
"My dad?! M-My dad is training you? What's he like? Is he nice? Is he...is he mean? I've never met my dad before, so I was really surprised when you told me he's training you! Maybe I should go meet him... Ooh, I should bring Gohan!"
Goku had very little knowledge of his biological family since he was too young to remember his parents and have never learned the good traits of them. His opinion on his Saiyan heritage kept varying through the course of Dragon Ball Z. Furthermore, when Goku first discovered his Saiyan heritage, he rejected it out of horror and disgust at being from a race of vicious killers, though he started to embrace his heritage after Vegeta's speech against Frieza on Namek had inspired him to avenge the loss of all those killed by Frieza, including his Saiyan race. After his first time transforming into a Super Saiyan, Goku seemed to have ultimately embraced his Saiyan heritage, while proclaiming himself to be the "Super Saiyan of legend" from the ancient Saiyan myths in order to frighten Frieza. Despite this, Goku has preferred to go by his Earthling name, although he has made Vegeta an exception because he knew that Vegeta will never change his mind on that, and also because the two are Saiyans like him. By Broly, Goku has embraced his Saiyan heritage enough that he was willing to tell Broly his Saiyan name and requested that Broly refer to him as it. During the Granolah the Survivor Saga, upon learning about the noble side of his father, Goku became noticeably more intrigued to hear about him. Upon hearing a recording of Bardock's voice, Goku began to remember more about his parents and how they loved him so much to risk their lives to save him. In Xenoverse 2, despite his extreme hatred for his evil brother, he showed an interest in learning more about his parents. When learning that the Future Warrior is training under his father, Goku showed an interest in meeting him, even bringing his family.
Goku's most unique relationship is with the Saiyan prince Vegeta. Their rivalry is mostly one-sided as Goku is generally friendly towards Vegeta and recognizes his abilities as a fighter, although Goku does get competitive with Vegeta as seen from learning that Vegeta left without him to train under Whis. While Goku and Vegeta have trouble working together, due to their conflicting personalities and Vegeta's continued desire to best Goku, they both respect and motivate each other to grow stronger, ultimately becoming close and loyal friends outside their competitive nature. Also, Goku is not above teasing him and tends to admonish Vegeta's brutality towards enemies, as shown when he criticizes Vegeta for killing the Ginyu Force while they're incapacitated and defenseless.
In Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot, during the wait for the Cell Games after finding out Gohan is staying over at Capsule Corporation after helping the repaired Android 16, Chi-Chi notes that since Bulma is loaded, she bets he is enjoying quite the spread of food and asks Goku if he's jealous. Goku's response is that while he loves good grub, to him nothing tastes as good as her home cooked meals, causing Chi-Chi to feel both flattered and slightly embarrassed.
